# GEMINI-examples
Set of scripts containing different examples for how to initialize and run GEMINI

## Example GEMINI simulations included in this repo

Several different examples are included with the source code; although initial conditions for each must be generated by the user by running a corresponding equilibrium simulations which generates balanced initial conditions for a given date, time, etc.  These equilibrium runs generally are started with a made-up initial condition so there is a lot of initial settling before a sensible ionospheric state is achieved.  To account for this one usually needs to run for about 24 hours of simulation time to insure a set of state parameters that are a good representation of the ionosphere..  Each of these examples has its own initial and boundary conditions generation scripts which are stored in the appropriately named directories in the `initialize/` directory, along with a `config.ini` file as input to the simulation.  The generation scripts must be run in order to produce input grids and initial conditions for each simulation.

The examples are labeled:

* 2DSTEVE - an attempt to model STEVE aurora in 2D using inputs that vaguely resemble data from the nature paper.
* ARCS - a test case that included a 3D discrete arc
* ARCS_eq - an equilibrium (eq) simulation that generates initial conditions (ICs) for the ARCS simulation described below.
* Aether - a set of example simulations of a cusp and discrete aurora.  There are two sets of files for setting the boundary conditions for the cusp and discrete arc cases, respectively.
* isinglass - example from Guy's 2017 AGU talk showing our attempt to model the ionosphere during the isinglass launch using 2D PFISR vvels and Guy's inversions as input.
* RISR_eq - eq simulation for the GDI and KHI examples described below (location:  Resolute Bay ISR)
* isinglass_clayton - pre isinglass event used in Rob Clayton's paper
* isinlgass_clayton_flight - Rob's isinglass example
* isinglass_eq - an equilibrium simulation generating ICs for the ISINGLASS simulation
* nepal20152D_highres - A high resolution simulation in 2D for the 2015 Nepal earthquake; use by Paul Inchin in his paper
* nepal20152D_eq - eq simulation for the 2D nepal earthquake simulation
* tohoku20113D_eq - eq simulation for 2D Tohoku earthquake simulations
* tohoku20112D_highres - simulation of 2011 Tohoku earthquake ionospheric effects (require MAGIC input data)
* tohoku20113D_eq - eq simulation for 3D Tohoku earthquake simulation
* tohoku20113D_medres - A medium resolution simulation in 3D of the 2011 Tohoku earthquake.
* tohoku20113D_medres_control - a background (control) simulation for the medium resolution tohoku example.
* tohoku20113D_highres - High resolution tohoku simulation
* tohoku20113D_highres_control - A control (no perturbation) run for tohoku (needed to detrend TEC)
* tohoku20113D_highres_restart - an exmaple showing how a simulation can be restarted (under construction)
* tohoku20113D_highres_var - the tohoku simulation on a variable spacing grid
* GDI_periodic_medres_fileinput - a simulation of gradient-drift instability illustrating the use of a periodic mesh
* GDI_periodic_highres_fileinput - a highres GDI example
* GDI_periodic_highres_fileinput_large - a highres GDI example on a larger domain.  This one takes about a week to run on 256 cores.
* KHI_periodic_highres_fileinput - a simulation of Kelvin-Helmholtz instability illustration periodic meshes and use of polarization current solver

A fair bit of testing has been done on these, but there could still be problems so contact a developer if you are having issues with the examples.

