# GDI example with periodic boundary conditions

## Running this example

### 1)  Generate an equilibrium simulation for RISR
GEMINI is a dynamic model - if you start it in an arbitrary state it will "ring" and take a while to settle into a equilibrium.  If one is not careful this can obscure physics of interest so the best approach is to initialize GEMINI using a steady state solution.  There is not good way to obtain such a solution except for to start the model from an arbitrary state and let it run for a very long time until it achieves equilbrium.  This would be an expensive thing to do except that the equilbrium state will have very little structure and so may be run at a very coarse resolution.  Often for a Cartesian grid with a limited lat/lon extent 64 x 20 x 20 is sufficient.  

The GDI_periodic_medres example is usually run with the RISR_eq equilibrium simulation as input which represents the ionospheric at nighttime above the Resolute Bay incoherent scatter radar location.  These equilibrium can be obtained from the developers or may be generated by running the RISR_eq example from the repo in order to generate these data.

### 2)  Define a new grid an interpolate up 

See the model_setup_interp.m script for an example of how to complete this step.  In essence this is taking a coarsely run 

Create a grid, Cartesian in this case, using the makegrid_cart3D.m script from the main GEMINI repository (https://github.com/gemini3d/GEMINI/)).  To see the GDI cascade well requires about 512 grid points in both the x and y directions (x2 and x3, respectively, in the model).  This is an expensive simulation and should be done on 16-256 cores and will take about 2 hours-2 days.  

Interpolate the data from the equilbruim run onto this new grid and shown by the example in the model_setup_interp.m script.  Be sure to adjust the paths so that they point to the place on your system where the simulation data are/will be stored.  This script specifically needs the path to the RISR_eq data and also needs the path where the upsampled initial conditions are to be stored.  
